README.md, before:

# fake_sysops
An example set of manifests for a fake server deployment using puppet.

This is still very much a WIP. It is notable that some data should be extracted out in to hiera.

Once complete, these manifests should be able to configure a CentOS7 server with the following:
* A user named bob with sudo access
* motd upon login to show cowsay and a fortune
* A Web server using apache and mysql, with a simple PHP file that calls the database
* A Forwarding DNS server with 2 A hosts and 2 CNAMEs for a fake domain.
* NTP configuration for UK timezone
* SSH public key auth
* Password logins disabled for root
* Firewall rule for port 8080 and 22 only
* Make sure rsync backs up apache and mysql to another location on same disk every evening
* A dummy config file /etc/dummyd.conf with configurable settings

To get started, you could start out by creating and running the following script:
```
# Startup Fake Sysops Server
rpm -ivh https://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs-release-pc1-el-7.noarch.rpm
yum -y install puppet-agent
yum -y install git

cat <<EOF > /etc/puppetlabs/code/Puppetfile
forge 'forge.puppet.com'
mod 'puppetlabs/apache'
mod 'puppetlabs/mysql'
mod 'puppetlabs/motd'
mod 'puppetlabs/stdlib'
mod 'puppetlabs/concat'
mod 'saz/sudo'
mod 'jonnytpuppet/fake_sysops', :git => 'https://github.com/jonnytpuppet/fake_sysops'
mod 'inkblot/bind'
mod 'puppetlabs/ntp'
mod 'saz/timezone'
mod 'saz/ssh'
mod 'puppetlabs/firewall'
EOF

cat <<EOF > /etc/puppetlabs/code/localhost.pp
include fake_sysops::role::fake_sysops_server
EOF

gem install r10k
cd /etc/puppetlabs/code/
r10k puppetfile install

/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet apply /etc/puppetlabs/code/localhost.pp
```

There are probably much better ways to manage your Puppetfile, however this is a quick way to get you started.

## Bonus Material
In addition to the services and configuration managed by Puppet, this module also provides some basic checks to let you test to see that the end state is as expected.

You can run these checks as follows:

```
# Checks the output of the webpage configured by the lamp-stack profile
/etc/checks/check_http.rb -s "localhost" -p 8080 -f index.php -c "Connected to MySQL Server","Sucessfully selected database"

# Checks the DNS resolution of first.fakesysops.me
/etc/checks/check_dns.rb -s 127.0.0.1 -d first.fakesysops.me -i 1.1.1.1
```

Commit message:

Added check for NTP server

README.md, after:

# fake_sysops
An example set of manifests for a fake server deployment using puppet.

This is still very much a WIP. It is notable that some data should be extracted out in to hiera.

Once complete, these manifests should be able to configure a CentOS7 server with the following:
* A user named bob with sudo access
* motd upon login to show cowsay and a fortune
* A Web server using apache and mysql, with a simple PHP file that calls the database
* A Forwarding DNS server with 2 A hosts and 2 CNAMEs for a fake domain.
* NTP configuration for UK timezone
* SSH public key auth
* Password logins disabled for root
* Firewall rule for port 8080 and 22 only
* Make sure rsync backs up apache and mysql to another location on same disk every evening
* A dummy config file /etc/dummyd.conf with configurable settings

To get started, you could start out by creating and running the following script:
```
# Startup Fake Sysops Server
rpm -ivh https://yum.puppetlabs.com/puppetlabs-release-pc1-el-7.noarch.rpm
yum -y install puppet-agent
yum -y install git

cat <<EOF > /etc/puppetlabs/code/Puppetfile
forge 'forge.puppet.com'
mod 'puppetlabs/apache'
mod 'puppetlabs/mysql'
mod 'puppetlabs/motd'
mod 'puppetlabs/stdlib'
mod 'puppetlabs/concat'
mod 'saz/sudo'
mod 'jonnytpuppet/fake_sysops', :git => 'https://github.com/jonnytpuppet/fake_sysops'
mod 'inkblot/bind'
mod 'puppetlabs/ntp'
mod 'saz/timezone'
mod 'saz/ssh'
mod 'puppetlabs/firewall'
EOF

cat <<EOF > /etc/puppetlabs/code/localhost.pp
include fake_sysops::role::fake_sysops_server
EOF

gem install r10k
cd /etc/puppetlabs/code/
r10k puppetfile install

/opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet apply /etc/puppetlabs/code/localhost.pp
```

There are probably much better ways to manage your Puppetfile, however this is a quick way to get you started.

## Bonus Material
In addition to the services and configuration managed by Puppet, this module also provides some basic checks to let you test to see that the end state is as expected.

You can run these checks as follows:

```
# Checks the output of the webpage configured by the lamp-stack profile
/etc/checks/check_http.rb -s "localhost" -p 8080 -f index.php -c "Connected to MySQL Server","Sucessfully selected database"

# Checks the DNS resolution of first.fakesysops.me
/etc/checks/check_dns.rb -s 127.0.0.1 -d first.fakesysops.me -i 1.1.1.1

# Checks the response from the local NTP server
/etc/checks/check_ntp.rb -s 127.0.0.1
```
